---
draft: false
title: "FAQ"
toc: true
sidebar: sidenav
menu:
  sidenav:
    pre: "<i class='fas fa-question-circle'></i>"
    weight: -170
---

## Syndesis looks awesome. Who is it for?
Anyone that wants to integrate services. Syndesis includes a swish UI that enables the user to design integration flows and manage them from their browser.

No coding required... Unless you really want to and then Syndesis allows you to dive into the code, develop your own connectors (if one doesn't already exist), or hack on the integration definition directly.

## How to read logs?
Logs are currently visible only at infrastructure level, not via the web ui.
You can get a list of the pods running in Syndesis with the command: `oc get pods -n myproject`.  To read logs from command line, you can then invoke: `oc logs <POD_NAME>`

If you need to read logs from an instance of a dead/stopped pod, you can use: `oc logs -p <POD_NAME>`

## How to read the configuration files that are generated by the UI tool?
If you are a developer and you want to check the configuration files corresponding to the Integration that you have designed in the web ui, you can access them with **one of the following** commands:
- `oc cp myproject/<POD_NAME>:/deployments/project-0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar prj.jar`
- `oc rsync <POD_NAME>:/tmp/src /location/on/your/host`

In case your specific error prevents the jvm process (and the pod) to stay running you can still extract files from it.  
There are multiple ways to do that. The easiest one is to start a debug instance of the same failing pod, that won't run your application but that will just create the whole containerized "environment" and attach it to a `sleep` invocation.

```
# in a separated shell run, the default lifespan of this debug container is 1h
oc debug dc/<INTEGRATION_NAME>

# now you can use one of the approaches described above
oc cp myproject/<POD_NAME>:/deployments/project-0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar prj.jar

# when you are done, you might want to just close the debug pod
```

In this file you will find the following configuration files:

- `BOOT-INF/classes/syndesis.yml`
- `BOOT-INF/classes/mapping-step-*.json`

## How to clean a local `minishift` installation ?
After a while of local test and debugging you may end up with your local environment filling up the dedicated space. If you're using the `syndesis` CLI then you will need to login with `admin` privileges to your local cluster and execute the clean up command:

```
# Login as admin
oc login

# Remove the completed pods
syndesis dev --cleanup
``` 

## How to enable Data Virtualizations ?
Syndesis creates and manages data virtualizations to expose as data source connections. In order to enable them you can use the `syndesis` CLI and add the `--datavirt` option to your `syndesis install` command. If you already have a running installation and you want to enable the Data Virtualizations you will have to scale up the `komodo-server` pod and edit the `syndesis-ui` config map in order to enable it:

```
...
  "datavirt": {
    "dvUrl": "/vdb-builder/v1/",
    "enabled": 1
  },
...
``` 

Save to config and deploy again the `syndesis-ui` to have the Data Virtualizations enabled.

## Is `oscerd` a bot ?
This is asked very often. No, he's human. His mom got him tested. 
